[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: So you may have noticed
that we have a lot of illustrations
happening.
Back in the day I was a cartoonist.
Before I was a front end developer or
anywhere near web development.
I built websites to help promote my
comics and they were read by 400,000
teenage girls all across the world
every week and it was pretty awesome.
It was sometime after web development,
that I learned that my cartooning skills
had a really useful application and they
were good for storyboarding, interactive
designs, and also for illustrating talks.
My illustrations are so
much cooler than clip art.
And also they let me do things
like bring back this little guy.
He was my co-star back in the days
when I had comics, his name was Tuna.
He's based on my actual cat who has
long since departed this world but
I swore to immortalize him
forever in pop culture.
Now that I don't make comics.
He is my little teacher's assistant, and
will be the subject of many of our
experiments I mean, coding examples today.
Not that we're going to
cause him any trouble.
>> Rachel Nabors: So let's get started
on the big bad CSS transitions.
>> Rachel Nabors: It is not
a good day to have an itchy nose.
You're going to have to watch
me rubbing my nose a lot.
All right, so a transition,
a CSS transition specifically to describes
how CSS property should display change
when it gets a different value.
So you can think of this is
like you change the color.
How long should that change take?
Should it go from fast to slow or
slow to fast.
Should it kind of a chunk
up in between like turn
to various shades of another color
while it's going to its next color.
Transitions are all about going
from one values to another.
And this is how you write that.
You need two ingredients, you need
the property that you're changing and
you need its duration.
These are not optional.
You cannot write a transition
without these two values but
there are a bunch of other
optional things we can give it.
Let me demonstrate for you how these work.
Come on mousey, there we are.
Papa.
>> Rachel Nabors: So this is CodePen.
This also serves as my on boarding
chance for you in CodePen.
When you go to CodePen you can,
if it's not already in the editor view.
You can go to Change View.
And then click Editor View.
>> Rachel Nabors: And it will give
you access to these three panes.
And you can double-click on the top bar of
any one of them to bring it into focus.
And you can use Fork to make sure that
you keep a copy with your account
if you would like to hang onto it for
future reference.
So here we've got a ball div and
we've got an image.
The image is the little paw, and
we are going to edit its CSS.
Cuz we're not, we don't have
a lot that we can do with the,
a lot that we can do with the HTML.
So what's happening here, if you want
to refresh it you can just hit Enter or
Tab, just anything and
it will reload the page automatically.
So as you can see what's happening, every
time I change it, we're reloading and
that paw is scooting across the page.
Now you'll notice that the paw
originally has a transition on it.
It's got a transition and the transitions'
property is the transform and
it takes 0.25 seconds to run.
Now beneath that you'll see
the playing-paw scope here.
That changes the paw's transform and so
that it scoots it over by about 30 pixels.
Watch what happens when
I remove the transition.
>> Rachel Nabors: I said watch what
happens when I remove, it jumps.
It doesn't do it slowly it
just jumps right over and
if you're wondering where that playing
class is coming from, we've got a load.
We've got a load event that's attaching
a class of playing to the body.
That's very important because
without this change happening,
>> Rachel Nabors: The paw never moves.
So you can see that we needed
that class to trigger the change
that the animation runs on,
the CSS transfer transition runs on.
All right.
>> Rachel Nabors: This is how
you write that in the long form.
We have transition-property: color;
transition-duration: 2 seconds.
It gets a little wordy, but
some people especially when they start out
like to write these things
out very specifically.
This makes a lot of sense if you're just
writing one transition or two transitions.
Let's take a closer look at some of these,
some of these properties.
So, transition-property, that's
the property you want to transition.
I should make a point of saying,
that only some things are transitionable.
There is a whole list of things
that are transitionable and
the URL is provided on the screen.
But not everything is and
if you are transitioning something and
you're wondering, why can't I get
this to animate or transition.
Why I want to do what I'm asking it to do.
You might wanna check this list.
I stayed up very late once trying to
get a radio gradient to animate and
it turns out that linear
gradients can be animated.
Radial gradients cannot be animated and
I should have checked this
list a lot sooner than I did.
So don't beat your head against the wall,
check the list.
Transition duration.
Now transition duration can take either
a seconds or milliseconds value.
You;re gonna see a lot of seconds
written in these examples but
I have found from working
with companies that.
Milliseconds are actually a lot more
robust to use in production code.
Partly this is because JavaScript
takes millisecond values, so
if you should ever need to write
something that parses your CSS for
timing values, it's a lot easier
to look for milliseconds.
You don't have to run conversions on them.
And also most of the things
that you are going to be
animating are going to take
less than a second to run.
So instead of littering your
CSS with decimal points,
sometimes it just makes more
sense to use whole values.
Transition timing function.
My gosh it's so long.
I wish it were just easing but
it is transition timing function.
However, the cushioning for
the transition, it is optional,
it has a default values of ease.
Will talk a bit more
about timing functions,
i promise they are a vast scoped concept.
And then there's transition delay,
or the number of milliseconds or
seconds you want to delay the transition
before firing it, also optional.
Defaults to zero so
transitions run immediately.
[COUGH]
So how do transitions and
their durations and delays look when
you write them out in the short hand?
How does the browser know,
how do you know specifically,
which one of these is the duration and
which one of these is the delay?
Well, one of them is optional.
So the browser assumes the first one
it runs into is the mandatory duration.
Thus the second one must be the delay.